README.md, before:

Glue to wrap `flatpak`, as part of a mischievous scam, tricking `xdg-desktop-portal` into letting us have decent [declaratively managed containerization on NixOS](https://github.com/nixpak/nixpak/).

I mean, it wasn't like [upstream was gonna stop bikeshedding](https://github.com/flatpak/xdg-desktop-portal/pull/741) on stuff like this any time soon.

## Someday Eventually Asked Questions

- Q: What's it actually do?
- A: It functions as a drop-in replacement for the original flatpak package & module.
- Q: Does it control the permissions given by bwrap via `nixpak`?
- A: No, it doesn't touch that stuff.
- Q: So I have to specify my permissions in two places?
- A: Yeah.
- Q: That sucks.
- A: True.
- Q: Do I need to have the nixpkgs flatpak service enabled too for flatpak to work?
- A: You probably shouldn't.
- Q: What happens if I do?
- A: Um... bad things, probably. I don't think I've tried it.
- Q: Why not use an overlay instead?
- A: That's a good question, actually.
- Q: And what's the answer?
- A: I dunno.
- Q: Are you being serious?
- A: Yes. ^w^
- Q: Why are you like this?
- A: I'm really busy.
- Q: Do you accept PRs?
- A: Sure. :3
- Q: Why did you give it such a bad/awkward name?
- A: Because I'm a programmer.
- Q: Why did you code this in Rust instead of using a shell script?
- A: I like 🦀 uwu
- Q: What?
- A: Yes.


## Features 

- Theoretically kind of robust (IDK, I haven't seen it misbehave yet.)
- Most failure modes will simply transparently call flatpak to avoid bricking flatpak
- Wraps the entirety of the `pkgs.flatpak` file set, transparently updating it with a replacement for the binary, renaming the old binary to `flatpak-raw`
- Easy-to-use module for drop-in reliable configuration & setup
- Logs its experiences in a wondrous diary of adventure so that you can see why, when something goes wrong.
- Centrally managed with a TOML config file, which is hopefully kind of easy to declaratively manage.
- A schema-aware Nix configuration module, so that I will forget to update it when I make changes to the TOML config. :sob:
- Arguably overengineered, with questionable features such as tilda expansion.


## Usage

You can add it to your system flake `inputs` like so:

```nix
nixpak-flatpak-wrapper = {
  url = "github:crabdancing/nixpak-flatpak-wrapper";
  inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
};
```

Once you've added the `nixosModules.default` to your system modules, configuration can happen like so:
```nix
programs.nixpak-flatpak-wrapper = {
  enable = true;
  settings = {
    enable_logging = true,
    perms = [
      {
        app_id = "org.chromium.Chromium";
        bind.rw = [
          "~/Downloads"
        ];
      }
      {
        app_id = "org.mozilla.firefox";
        bind.rw = [
          "~/Downloads"
        ];
      }
    ];
  };
};
```

## Internals

Config is stored at `/etc/nixpak-flatpak-wrapper.toml`

The schema is as such:

```toml
[[perms]]
app_id = "org.chromium.Chromium"
bind.rw = [
  "~/Downloads"
]
bind.ro = []

[[perms]]
app_id = "org.mozilla.firefox"
bind.rw = [
  "~/Downloads"
]
bind.ro = []
```

It records what happens in `~/.local/share/nixpak-flatpak-wrapper/nixpak-flatpak-wrapper.log` for ease of debugging. This is because a drop-in wrapper/replacement should not print warning/error messages the original app would not have, in case it breaks someone's parsing.

Commit message:

Module: Use `services.flatpak.package` to override binary
Instead of adding the wrapper package to `environment.systemPackages`
and the likes ourselves, we now use the `services.flatpak.package`
option.

See https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/331993

README.md, after:

Glue to wrap `flatpak`, as part of a mischievous scam, tricking `xdg-desktop-portal` into letting us have decent [declaratively managed containerization on NixOS](https://github.com/nixpak/nixpak/).

I mean, it wasn't like [upstream was gonna stop bikeshedding](https://github.com/flatpak/xdg-desktop-portal/pull/741) on stuff like this any time soon.

## Someday Eventually Asked Questions

- Q: What's it actually do?
- A: It functions as a drop-in replacement for the original flatpak package & module.
- Q: Does it control the permissions given by bwrap via `nixpak`?
- A: No, it doesn't touch that stuff.
- Q: So I have to specify my permissions in two places?
- A: Yeah.
- Q: That sucks.
- A: True.
- Q: Do I need to have the nixpkgs flatpak service enabled too for flatpak to work?
- A: Yes.
- Q: What happens if I do?
- A: Um... bad things, probably. I don't think I've tried it.
- Q: Why not use an overlay instead?
- A: That triggers a bunch of rebuilds that error.
- Q: Do you accept PRs?
- A: Sure. :3
- Q: Why did you give it such a bad/awkward name?
- A: Because I'm a programmer.
- Q: Why did you code this in Rust instead of using a shell script?
- A: I like 🦀 uwu
- Q: What?
- A: Yes.
- Q: uwu
- A: :3


## Features 

- Theoretically kind of robust (IDK, I haven't seen it misbehave yet.)
- Most failure modes will simply transparently call flatpak to avoid bricking flatpak
- Wraps the entirety of the `pkgs.flatpak` file set, transparently updating it with a replacement for the binary, renaming the old binary to `flatpak-raw`
- Easy-to-use module for drop-in reliable configuration & setup
- Logs its experiences in a wondrous diary of adventure so that you can see why, when something goes wrong.
- Centrally managed with a TOML config file, which is hopefully kind of easy to declaratively manage.
- A schema-aware Nix configuration module, so that I will forget to update it when I make changes to the TOML config. :sob:
- Arguably overengineered, with questionable features such as tilda expansion.


## Usage

You can add it to your system flake `inputs` like so:

```nix
nixpak-flatpak-wrapper = {
  url = "github:crabdancing/nixpak-flatpak-wrapper";
  inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
};
```

Once you've added the `nixosModules.default` to your system modules, configuration can happen like so:
```nix
services.flatpak.enable = true;

programs.nixpak-flatpak-wrapper = {
  enable = true;
  settings = {
    enable_logging = true,
    perms = [
      {
        app_id = "org.chromium.Chromium";
        bind.rw = [
          "~/Downloads"
        ];
      }
      {
        app_id = "org.mozilla.firefox";
        bind.rw = [
          "~/Downloads"
        ];
      }
    ];
  };
};
```

## Internals

Config is stored at `/etc/nixpak-flatpak-wrapper.toml`

The schema is as such:

```toml
[[perms]]
app_id = "org.chromium.Chromium"
bind.rw = [
  "~/Downloads"
]
bind.ro = []

[[perms]]
app_id = "org.mozilla.firefox"
bind.rw = [
  "~/Downloads"
]
bind.ro = []
```

It records what happens in `~/.local/share/nixpak-flatpak-wrapper/nixpak-flatpak-wrapper.log` for ease of debugging. This is because a drop-in wrapper/replacement should not print warning/error messages the original app would not have, in case it breaks someone's parsing.
